At monasteries during the life of the Buddha, certain monks were assigned the task of memorizing the teachings of the Buddha. In addition, there were precept masters, who were experts in the rules for novices and ordained monks. One year at Ghosira, a conflict arose between a sutra master and a precept master. Their argument stemmed from a small event, but ended up creating a sharp division in the sangha. A sutra master forgot to clean out the wash basin he had used and was charged with a violation of a lesser pre-
cept by a precept master. The sutra master was a proud person and contended that since he had not intentionally left the basin dirty, he was not to blame. Students of each monk
took the side of their own teacher, and the argument escalated. One side accused the other of slander, while the other side accused their opponents of acting foolishly. Finally, the precept master publicly announced the the sutra master's transgression and forbade him from attending the bi-weekly precepts recitation ceremony until he formally confessed before the sangha.

The situation grew more and more intense. Both sides spoke ill of each other. Their words flew like poisoned arrows. Most of the other monks took sides, although naturally there were some who refused to take either side. They realized that this conflict was creating a harmful division in the sangha. At that time, the Buddha was residing not far from Ghosira monastery, but he was unaware of the conflict. One day a delegation of concerned monks visited him, told him of it, and asked him to intervene. The Buddha went right away to meet with the precept master, and he told him, "We should not become too attached to our own viewpoint. We should listen carefully in order to understand others'
viewpoints. We should seek all means to prevent the community from breaking." Then he went to the sutra master and said the same thing. Returning to his hut, he was hopeful that the two men would reconcile. But the Buddha's intervention had almost no effect. Too many ill words had already been spoken, too many wounds had already been inflicted. The monks who remained impartial did not have enough influence to bring the two sides together. The conflict reached the ears of the lay disciples, and before long, even other religious sects had heard of the trouble in the Buddha 's sangha. It was a serious blow to the integrity of the sangha. Nagita, the Buddha's attendant at the time, was unable to endure the situation anymore. He discussed the matter with the Buddha, beseeching him to intervene once again. 

The Buddha put on his outer robe and went at once to the monastery's meeting hall. Nagita rang the bell to summon the community. When all were present, the Buddha said,
"Please stop arguing. It is only creating division in the community. Please return to your practice. If we truly follow our practice, we will not be victims of pride or
anger." But one monk stood up and said, "Master, please don't involve yourself in this matter. Return and dwell peacefully in your meditation. This matter does not concern you at all. We are adults and capable of resolving this on our own." Dead silence followed the monk's words. The Buddha stood up and left the meeting hall. He returned to his hut,
picked up his bowl, and walked down into Kosambi to beg. When he was finished begging, he entered the forest to eat alone. Then he stood up and walked out of Kosambi. He
headed for the river. He did not tell anyone of his departure, not even his attendant., Nagita, or Venerable Ananda. The Buddha walked until he reached the town of Balaka-
lonakaragama. There he met his disciple, the Venerable Bhagu. Bhagu invited him into the forest where he dwelled alone. He offered the Buddha a towel and wash basin to
wash his face and hands. The Buddha asked Bhagu how his practice was going. Bhagu replied that he found great ease and joy in the practice, even though he was presently
dwelling all alone. The Buddha remarked, "Sometimes it is more pleasant to live alone than with many people." After bidding Bhagu farewell, the Buddha headed for
Eastern Bamboo Forest, which was not far way. As he was about to enter the forest. the groundskeeper stopped him and  said, "Monk, don't go in there or you may disturb the monks who are practicing in there." Before the Buddha could think of a response, Venerable Anuruddha appeared. He happily greeted the Buddha and said to the groundskeeper, 'This is my own teacher. Please allow him to enter." Anuruddha led the Buddha into the forest where he lived with two other bhikkhus, Nandiya and Kimbila. They were
very happy to see the Buddha. Nandiya took the Buddha's bowl and Kimbila took his outer robe, and they cleared a place for him to sit by a thicket of gold bamboo. They
brought a towel and:wash basin. The three bhikkhus joined their palms and bowed to the Buddha. The Buddha asked them to be seated and he asked, "Are you content here?

How is your practice going? 00 you encounter any difficulties in begging or sharing the teaching in this region?" Anuruddha answered, "Lord, we are very content here. It
is calm and peaceful. We receive ample food offerings and are able to share the dharma. We are all making progress in our practice."
The Buddha asked, "00 you live in harmony with one another?" Anuruddha said, "Lord, we care deeply for each other. We live in harmony like milk and honey. I consider living
with Nandiya and Kimbila a great blessing. I treasure their friendship. Before I say or do anything, whether they are  present or not. I stop and ask myself what their reaction will be. Will my words or actions disappoint my brothers in any way? If I feel any doubts, I refrain from the words or actions intended. Lord, although we are three persons, we are also one." The Buddha nodded his approval. He looked at the other two bhikkhus. Kimbila said, "Anuruddha speaks the truth. We live in harmony and care deeply for each other."  Nandiya added. "We share all things. from our food to our insight and experience." The Buddha praised them, "Excellent! I am most pleased to see how you live in harmony. A sangha is only a true sangha when such harmony exists. You have experienced real awakening and that is why you have realized such harmony."

The Buddha spent a month with these three monks. He observed how they went begging every morning after meditation. Whichever monk returned fIrst from begging always prepared a place for the others to sit. gathered water  for washing, and set out an empty bowl. Before he ate anything. he would place some of his food into the empty bowl in case one of his brother's had not received any food. After they had all fInished eating. they placed any leftover food on the ground or in the stream. careful not to harm any creatures that lived there. Then they washed their bowls together.

Whoever saw that the toilet needed scrubbing did it at once. They joined together to do any tasks that required more than one person. They sat down regularly to share insights and experiences. Before the Buddha left the three monks. he spoke to them, "Monks. the very nature of a sangha is harmony. I believe harmony can be realized by following these principles: 

1. Sharing a common space such as a forest or home.
2. Sharing the essentials of daily life together.
3. Observing the precepts together.
4. Using only words that contribute to harmony. Avoiding all words that can cause the community to break.
5. Sharing insights and understanding together.
6. Respecting others' viewpoints and not forcing another to follow your own viewpoint.

"A sangha that follows these principles will have happiness and harmony. Monks. let us always observe these six principles. "

The monks were happy to receive this teaching from the Buddha. The Buddha bid them farewell and walked until he reached Rakkhita Forest, near Parileyyaka. After sitting in
meditation beneath a lush sal tree, he decided to spend the approaching rainy season alone in the forest. 
